README.md, before:

# ActiveMQ Broker and Admin Console as a WAR file

This project is a simple Gradle overlay over the standard ActiveMQ Web
Console WAR.  The modifications are minimal and are limited to
configuration.  [Apache Derby](https://db.apache.org/derby/) dependencies
are included for those who wish to use Derby as a storage backend.

This modifies `WEB-INF/webconsole-embedded.xml` in the WAR and removes
`WEB-INF/activemq.xml` from the WAR.

`webconsole-embedded.xml` is modified so that the `activemq.xml` config file
is found in a directory specified with the `activemq.conf` system property
(which is the same system property the binary ActiveMQ distribution uses).

`webconsole-embedded.xml` is made to look more like what you see in the
binary assembly distribution of ActiveMQ.  If you're curious, you can see
this version in the ActiveMQ source code in
`assembly/src/release/webapps/admin/WEB-INF/webconsole-embedded.xml`.

You can deploy this WAR file in your application server and launch the JVM
with `-Dactivemq.conf` to specify the directory location containing your
`activemq.xml` and `credentials.properties` configuration files.  This gives
you both an ActiveMQ Broker and the Web Console running within your
application server.

When you deploy the WAR, you'll probably want to rename the WAR to something
like `activemq-admin.war` so that you can access the web console with a
simple URL like http://localhost/activemq-admin.

If you need a starting point for your configuration files, use the
`activemq.xml` and `credentials.properties` files from the binary ActiveMQ
distribution in the `conf` directory.  If you use the stock `activemq.xml`,
you'll need to set the `activemq.data` system property as well.

I also had to make the following modifications to the stock activemq.xml:
* Delete the logQuery bean
* Comment out transports that weren't in use.  I only configured the
openwire transport.
* Delete the import of jetty.xml

## Building the WAR

Run:
```
./gradlew war
```

The WAR ends up in the `builds/lib` directory.

## App Servers like Tomcat without JSTL

Tomcat doesn't ship with JSTL dependencies (and possibly other application
servers), so if you're deploying the WAR to an application server without
JSTL, use the WAR file from `with-jstl-overlay/builds/lib`.

## Apache Derby (optional)

This isn't an exhaustive section on how to configure ActiveMQ to use JDBC
and Derby (see ActiveMQ documentation for that), but there are a few key
things to note if you're using Derby.

You'll want to set the `derby.system.home` system property and you'll want a
`derby.properties` file in that directory that looks something like this:
```
derby.drda.startNetworkServer=true
derby.drda.minThreads=1
```

Add the `DerbyShutdownHook` to your activemq.xml:
```
        <shutdownHooks>
            <bean xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans" class="edu.berkeley.activemq.hooks.DerbyShutdownHook" />
            <bean xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans" class="org.apache.activemq.hooks.SpringContextHook" />
        </shutdownHooks>
```

Commit message:

Modify web.xml to add authentication for the web console.

README.md, after:

# ActiveMQ Broker and Admin Console as a WAR file

This project is a simple Gradle overlay over the standard ActiveMQ Web
Console WAR.  The modifications are minimal and are limited to
configuration.  [Apache Derby](https://db.apache.org/derby/) dependencies
are included for those who wish to use Derby as a storage backend.

This modifies `WEB-INF/webconsole-embedded.xml` and `WEB-INF/web.xml` in the
WAR and removes `WEB-INF/activemq.xml` from the WAR.

`webconsole-embedded.xml` is modified so that the `activemq.xml` config file
is found in a directory specified with the `activemq.conf` system property
(which is the same system property the binary ActiveMQ distribution uses).

`webconsole-embedded.xml` is made to look more like what you see in the
binary assembly distribution of ActiveMQ.  If you're curious, you can see
this version in the ActiveMQ source code in
`assembly/src/release/webapps/admin/WEB-INF/webconsole-embedded.xml`.

`web.xml` is modified to enable container authentication for the web
console.  The original `web.xml` is located in the ActiveMQ source code in
`activemq-web-console/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml`.  See the Webconsole
Authentication section for more info on securing the web console.

You can deploy this WAR file in your application server and launch the JVM
with `-Dactivemq.conf` to specify the directory location containing your
`activemq.xml` and `credentials.properties` configuration files.  This gives
you both an ActiveMQ Broker and the Web Console running within your
application server.

When you deploy the WAR, you'll probably want to rename the WAR to something
like `activemq-admin.war` so that you can access the web console with a
simple URL like http://localhost/activemq-admin.

If you need a starting point for your configuration files, use the
`activemq.xml` and `credentials.properties` files from the binary ActiveMQ
distribution in the `conf` directory.  If you use the stock `activemq.xml`,
you'll need to set the `activemq.data` system property as well.

I also had to make the following modifications to the stock activemq.xml:
* Delete the logQuery bean
* Comment out transports that weren't in use.  I only configured the
openwire transport.
* Delete the import of jetty.xml

## Building the WAR

Run:
```
./gradlew war
```

The WAR ends up in the `builds/lib` directory.

## App Servers like Tomcat without JSTL

Tomcat doesn't ship with JSTL dependencies (and possibly other application
servers), so if you're deploying the WAR to an application server without
JSTL, use the WAR file from `with-jstl-overlay/builds/lib`.

## Apache Derby (optional)

This isn't an exhaustive section on how to configure ActiveMQ to use JDBC
and Derby (see ActiveMQ documentation for that), but there are a few key
things to note if you're using Derby.

You'll want to set the `derby.system.home` system property and you'll want a
`derby.properties` file in that directory that looks something like this:
```
derby.drda.startNetworkServer=true
derby.drda.minThreads=1
```

Add the `DerbyShutdownHook` to your activemq.xml:
```
        <shutdownHooks>
            <bean xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans" class="edu.berkeley.activemq.hooks.DerbyShutdownHook" />
            <bean xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans" class="org.apache.activemq.hooks.SpringContextHook" />
        </shutdownHooks>
```

## Webconsole Authentication

The `web.xml` file in the WAR enables container authentication using the
`BASIC` authentication method using the `amq-admin` role.  If deploying this
WAR to a Tomcat application server, edit the `tomcat-users.xml` file to
establish a username and password for the web console.  Note the role name
must be `amq-admin` (to match what is in `web.xml`), but the username can be
anything and you can have multiple users with the `amq-admin` role.  For
other application servers, consult the app server's documentation for how to
add users and passwords for container authentication.

```
<tomcat-users>
  <role rolename="amq-admin"/>
  <user username="amq-admin" password="CHANGEME" roles="amq-admin"/
</tomcat-users>
```
